ladies and gentlemen welcome to the
horror mine where we talk about
mysteries thrillers and horror movies
my name is vic shy and this week my
friends i'll be going over the newly
released james one horror film
malignant tells the story of madison
mitchell portrayed by annabelle wallace
madison is being haunted by terrifying
visions of real-life murders being
committed by a mysterious entity from
her past called gabriel malignant is the
10th film from brilliant horror director
james wan and let me tell you it is
absolutely insane i'll be going over the
events that take place throughout the
film and explaining that crazy ass
ending that will probably catch some
people off guard this video will contain
spoilers for malignant which is
currently playing in theaters and
streaming on hbo max if you enjoy this
video make sure to click that like
button as it really helps the channel
and i truly appreciate it but without
further ado sit back and relax and join
me as we explore the mysterious and
bloody world
of malignant our movie begins in 1993 at
the simeon research hospital dr florence
weaver is filming a video log detailing
the status of a patient named gabriel
she says gabriel is not only growing
stronger but more malicious lights begin
to flicker and a security guard alerts
dr weaver that gabriel got out again a
dr fields says that they tried to subdue
him using electroshock but that gabriel
seemed to have absorbed the electricity
as a doctor gets violently thrown
against the wall the security guard
takes out a tranquilizer gun and tries
to subdue gabriel he sticks his entire
gun barrel inside the room and gets his
arm snapped in half for his idiocy dr
weaver quickly grabs the gun and shoots
gabriel down like she's freaking agent
47. we realize just how dangerous
gabriel is as we see several of the
medical staff lying dead on the floor
how can someone wearing such cute socks
be so evil
[Applause]
oh damn someone burned that thing with
fire gabriel can broadcast his speech
through her radio and says that he will
kill them all realizing that they cannot
help gabriel dr weaver says that it's
time to cut out the cancer
during the title sequence we see some
type of surgery being performed in
several medical files regarding
gabriel's condition in the present day
we meet our main character madison
mitchell who is pregnant and lives with
her abusive husband derek derek is a
complete douche and tells madison that
she needs to stop getting pregnant we
learned that she has suffered from
numerous miscarriages possibly due to
the physical abuse from derek during the
argument derrick slams madison's head
into the wall causing her to bleed and
she locks herself inside of the bedroom
that night derek is sleeping on the
couch although he really should be
sleeping inside of a jail cell he wakes
up to a noise in the kitchen and the
typical horror film shenanigans begin
the ghostly entity pops up behind him
and slams his head against the wall
which wakes up madison she hasn't
received any medical attention from her
injury as we see a large blood stain
left on her pillow she walks downstairs
and finds derek's dead body with his
head seemingly snapped backwards the
ghostly entity crawls from behind his
body and begins chasing madison she runs
up to the nursery room but the entity
breaks down the door knocking her out
cold homicides detectives kakoa moss and
regina shaw arrive to investigate the
crime which is being called a home
invasion though there are no signs of
forced entry they are briefed by a csi
investigator named winnie who seems to
have a crush on kokoa winnie is
portrayed by actress ingrid bisu who is
james wands's wife at the hospital
madison is visited by her sister sydney
and finds out that the doctors were
unable to save her baby detective kakoa
speaks with sydney where she learns of
madison's previous three miscarriages
something she wasn't aware of detective
shaw says the autopsy revealed the
handprints on derrick's body were all
backwards they began to suspect madison
as the killer because of their history
of domestic abuse madison returns home
from the hospital and applies deadbolts
to her front and back door she tells
sydney that she really wanted to have a
baby so she could feel a biological
connection to someone she reveals that
she was adopted by their parents when
she was eight and does not remember
anything prior to being adopted we then
see a tour of underground seattle being
given by an unnamed woman after the tour
the woman is captured by the unknown
entity and taken to its lair the entity
reveals itself to be gabriel when it
speaks to the captive woman through an
old radio gabriel then calls dr florence
weaver over the phone and tells her that
that night while casually doing some
laundry a ghostly figure runs across the
house lights start to flicker and
madison's head injury begins bleeding
again we then get one of the coolest
moments in the film while doing the
laundry dr weaver's face appears in the
washing machine what are you doing in my
house
this is my house
who are you
that would have been like yup this is
your house take it i'm out peace gabriel
suddenly appears and begins tossing dr
weaver around madison is seemingly
paralyzed and her environment around her
changes and forms into the inside of dr
weaver's home madison then witnesses
gabriel brutally murdering dr weaver
using one of her own surgical trophies
as a weapon she wakes back up inside of
her own home to the injury in the back
of her head bleeding again the
detectives process the crime scene and
kokoa finds a picture of a young female
patient of dr weavers from 1992 and asks
one of his co-workers to age the picture
30 years back in his lair gabriel
fashions the trophy into an assassin's
knife and must have a blacksmith level
of 100 because that knife is looking
real smooth madison then witnesses the
brutal murder of dr victor fields a
co-worker of dr weaver at the simeon
research hospital dr fields is sleeping
like a baby in his bed dreaming one
sheep two sheep and then gets brutally
stabbed in the face madison gets a close
look at gabriel whom we see has a
hideous deformed face she informs the
detectives that she witnessed dr fields
murder in real time and takes him to the
location of his dead body madison
receives a call from gabriel who calls
her by the name emily he says that she
allowed them to tell her that he was
just a figment of her imagination and
that he is going to make them pay one by
one
right after leaving the station
detective kokoa discovers that madison
was the young girl in the photo and was
a patient of dr weaver and that her real
name is emily may madison and sydney go
visit their mother and ask her about
gabriel we see several creepy home
videos of madison as a kid talking to
her imaginary friend named gabriel she
is seen talking to gabriel on a toy
phone and says that she will not hurt
the baby referring to the unborn sydney
what's going on
nothing
detective kokoa makes the connection
that all of gabriel's targets were
doctors working on madison's case at the
simian hospital he looks up the address
of the remaining victim dr john gregory
hoping to prevent his murder madison
witnesses the murder of dr gregory that
detective kakoa is unable to stop in
time she tries to warn kakoa that
gabriel is still in the room but she
appears invisible to him detective kokoa
and gabriel get into a physical brawl in
an intense chase scene ensues kokoa
chases gabriel to a location inside of
the seattle underground tour but
eventually loses sight of him they
enlist the help of a hypnotist to see if
they can access madison's repressed
childhood memories for information about
gabriel we see a flashback in which
young madison receives a call on her toy
phone from gabriel
this is such a well-crafted and
unsettling scene that proves james wan
is a true master of horror i'm now going
to have nightmares of the chatter
telephone from toy story 3. thanks a lot
james young madison draws a knife from
the kitchen and it looks like she's
about to have herself some cake the
kitchen then forms into her parents
bedroom and maddie finds herself holding
a knife over her mother's pregnant belly
showing that gabriel really wanted to
get rid of the new baby present-day
madison begins screaming uncontrollably
and is brought back to reality by the
hypnotist by the look on their faces the
detectives must be thinking what the
hell did i just get myself into back in
gabriel's lair the woman manages to get
free of her binds she attempts to walk
away and fall straight through the floor
and into madison's living room revealing
that the woman was trapped in madison's
attic the entire time
[Music]
they locate the murder weapon and all of
gabriel's belongings in her attic and
madison is once again the prime suspect
they bring her in for questioning and
detective shot begins antagonizing
madison
kokoa then receives a call from gabriel
on his phone where he reveals that he is
the one responsible for everything
sydney decides to do some investigating
of her own and drives out to the now
abandoned simeon research hospital she
goes to the basement and finds madison's
files in the records division this is
where the film's plot twist is revealed
and this film's insanely gory final act
begins the detectives discovered that
the woman gabriel captured his name
serena may and is madison's birth mother
she became pregnant with madison as a
result of rape and give her baby to the
simian research hospital we learned that
gabriel is madison's underdeveloped twin
that was stuck to the back of her body
since birth gabriel acted as a parasite
and relied on maddie's body to survive
it is explained that gabriel gained
access to a part of maddie's brain that
allowed him to make her see what he
wanted her to see gabriel became
malevolent or malignant and began
telling maddie to do all sorts of bad
things on his behalf the doctors decided
to surgically remove gabriel from maddie
in order to save her however the twins
were conjoined at the brain and complete
removal of gabriel could have killed or
severely damaged madison they removed
what they could and suppressed the rest
of gabriel into the back of madison's
skull gabriel has been living in her
head rent-free ever since he was the one
telling maddie to kill baby sydney as he
feared he would be replaced and
forgotten once she was born once sydney
was born madison suppressed and forgot
all about gabriel gabriel was unleashed
again when derek slammed madison's head
into the wall gabriel was able to take
control of madison's body and went on a
killing spree of all the doctors
responsible for trying to get rid of him
madison was able to see all the murders
from her subconscious but was unaware of
what was truly going on as she did not
have full control of her mind or body
gabriel has superhuman strength and is
somehow able to manipulate electronics
like electro this explains why lights
flicker in his presence and how he was
able to call madison and detective kokoa
on their cell phones this also shows why
madison's head was always bleeding after
waking up from her visions as the blood
came from gabriel opening and closing
his ugly mug there were several hints
and visual clues throughout the film to
show that gabriel and madison inhabited
the same body the first was at the very
beginning of the film when the doctors
are talking about gabriel gabriel can be
seen behind of a plastic sheet but if we
pay close attention we can slightly make
out madison's hair in her shadow behind
him also i don't think those cute panda
socks were gabriel's idea during the
beginning credits there are documents
that refer to dicephalic parapagus which
is a rare condition where an individual
is born with two heads we even see an
x-ray which appears to show the two
heads side by side in the chasing after
derek's death the camera is made to give
the illusion that medicine is being
chased although we never see anyone
chasing after her there was also no one
pushing on the door which caused her to
fall although this could have been
gabriel playing mind tricks with madison
the same thing occurs more obviously
during a scene in the middle of the film
when madison is running through the
house the camera does an overhead shot
focusing on madison that i believe was
specifically shot this way to show that
no one was actually chasing her in one
scene madison can be seen staring at the
crack on the wall where she hit her head
her shadow here seems almost alive and
was in the exact same shape as the
ghostly entity she encountered earlier
which was herself gabriel was walking
around backward the entire time as his
face is in the back of madison's head
this is most clearly visible when he
murders dr fields and when he crawls
away from detective kakoa this also
explains why the handprints on derek's
body appear to be backwards finally and
this doesn't truly count as it happens
right before the actual reveal but
during a recording of serena may giving
gabriel and emily away she specifically
refers to the baby as them and him as
well as calling emily by name as bad as
gabriel is i think it was pretty funny
how he killed derek by smashing his head
into the wall just as he did to his
sister it was like gabriel being
defensive of his twin sister in his own
twisted way back at the police station
madison is placed in a jail cell with
whom i'm sure are a bunch of lovely
ladies madison is the obvious oddball in
the cell and they begin beating on her
for no apparent reason this unleashes
gabriel who brutally murders every
single woman inside of that cell an
officer tries to stop gabriel by
shooting at him multiple times but
sticks his entire arm inside of the cell
like an idiot and allows gabriel to
escape sydney tries to call detective
kokoa and tell him the truth about
gabriel but he is interrupted by the
total chaos taking place inside of the
police station gabriel gets a hold of
his assassin's dagger from the evidence
room and goes on a murder spree killing
all of the officers inside of the
station like he's trying to obtain a
call of duty kill streak
[Music]
the entirety of this third act is
absolutely insane with blood and guts
flying everywhere which i didn't expect
a james 1 horror film hasn't shown this
much gore since the original saw all the
officers must be portrayed by the same
actors as stormtroopers as none of them
are able to land a single hit on gabriel
in their defense gabriel is also moving
around like he's in the house of flying
daggers or something
kokoa calls out to madison who seemed
completely unaware of what was going on
up to that point the detectives get
severely injured trying to fight gabriel
and right before he escapes he decides
to get one more good chair toss in there
sydney heads to the hospital to speak to
madison's birth mother but gabriel is
already there he tells sydney that he
was saving her for last he clearly hates
sydney because madison chose her over
him the events are now unfolding for
madison in real time but she is unable
to gain control of her mind or body
sydney tries to get through to madison
and tells her that gabriel is the cause
of her numerous miscarriages he was
feeding off of your fetuses to build
himself back up it appears as if madison
is regaining control of her body but not
before gabriel shoots sydney in the head
and kills his own mother we see that
madison now has full control in that she
tricked gabriel into thinking he killed
sydney and his mom in reality they are
still alive and gabriel no longer has
control over madison she tells him that
he will now be living in a world that
she creates gabriel says that she can't
keep him locked up forever and that he
will return i know
but next time
i'll be ready for you
madison now has the same superhuman
strength as gabriel and lifts the
hospital bed off sydney in the film's
final scene madison embraces sydney and
tells her that she will always be her
real sister we see the shot of a light
bulb making a static noise hinting that
gabriel is still present as the movie
ends and that ladies and gentlemen was
malignant my friends it was an absolute
treat to see yet another james juan
original horror film on screen this was
by far his most outrageous and different
film to date the film had a very campy
and cheesy feel throughout and never
took itself too seriously james wants
stated that he wanted to go back to his
roots with this film and he wanted to
give audiences something new i feel like
he achieved just that with malignant
although it may not be embraced by the
typical moviegoer expecting a horror
movie more like insidious or the
conjuring i appreciated the film for
what it was although for me it falls
somewhere in the middle among james
wan's horror film resume overall
malignant is a fun cheesy and bloody
horror film that never takes itself too
seriously and i definitely recommend it
to any horror fan looking for a good
time malignant is currently playing in
theaters and streaming on hbo max and
you should check it out for yourself and
form your own opinion my friends as
always i hope you all enjoyed the video
thank you for tuning in and i cannot
wait to see y'all right back here in the
horror mine y'all stick around